Hey guys, welcome back to the course.
Let's talk about concierge MVPs. As a refresher,
concierge style MVPs are where you manually
help your users accomplish their goals as a means of
validating whether or not they have a need for
what you're doing in the first place.
This is different than the Wizard of Oz MVP in that
you don't actually build out anything, just some
way of connecting your users to you to get their participation,
and then, secondly, you are upfront in this scenario
about the fact that you don't yet have this feature.
Those are two key distinctions between the two.
Concierge MVPs
are very common ways to test the needs
of your users, even in big companies.
The advantages are that you can run them almost in secret.
All you have to do is email a batch of users
and manage those relationships directly.
You don't even have to add any fake buttons
to your website or build any fake pages.
Another advantage is that a concierge service is kind of like a hybrid between customer development and MVP testing.
You do get to see how they react and whether or not
they're going to use your service in a meaningful way,
but you also get the opportunity to ask why
and see what their internal reasoning is.
The cons of this type of experiment are that they're really management intensive and they can be really time absorbing.
In most cases, you yourself will want to run the task because,
you know, you're the one who knows what
questions to ask, which then can add some serious logistical issues for everyone, because you have other responsibilities.
You're also going to burn a lot of resources on one user.
You are just going to have to swallow the extra cost,
because concierge services and concierge MVPs
are just very rarely profitable in and of themselves.
The only cases where a concierge might actually
make you money is if you're selling luxury items, in
which case you can justify spending a lot of time on one person.
So how exactly do you run these experiments?
Let's try an example to help conceptualize this.
Let's say you're a product manager for Uber.
You know what Uber is, right?
And I probably don't have to tell you what it is. You want to know
if adding, let's say, a wheelchair accessible
car option to your app is worth pursuing.
You're not sure how many people exactly need it and whether the drivers will get enough money to stay on the system,
if they're solely focused on serving that one type.
So what you could do is pick a city,
take a handful of users, and email them,
talking about a beta program for handicap accessible cars.
You could also tell your regional managers
to ask around and forward any accounts they can find
that might benefit from the service. The users that
sign up then get a phone number to text
whenever they need pickup.
It's really that simple.
You could drive the car or have one person drive the car
and you operate the text message, you didn't
actually have to develop anything to do this.
Then it's up to you to just track how often people
end up using the car, whether or not they decide the
wait is even worth it, and whether or not they
just end up switching and using regular cars.
Also, the plus side is you get to talk to them during the ride and hear what the pros and cons of the setup are.
That's a realistic scenario in which you could pull this off.
If you want to assess whether or not this
is going to work for your organization,
you need to think about the value of time.
If you're too in demand, and you simply can't be 100%
committed to a concierge test, then it
might be the case that you try some different way of MVP testing.
Similarly, if you need bigger data sets to justify your decision,
you're just not going to get that with
this technique, unless you're planning a giant expensive operation.
So that is a concierge service.
It's cheap to run but it takes a ton of your time.
Think deeply about whether or not
this is something that is going to fit for you.
Generally, earlier in your company's history,
if you're a smaller group, that's generally where that's
the sweet spot for concierge tests,
but big organizations use them all the time.
All right guys, see you in the next lecture.